# 01. What is Emmet?

Emmet is a web-developer’s toolkit that can greatly improve your HTML & CSS workflow. <br>
Abbreviations are the heart of the Emmet toolkit: these special expressions are parsed in runtime and <br>
transformed into structured code block <br>
Example:<br>
#page>div.logo+ul#navigation>li\*5>a{Item $}<br>
The above example can be transformed into:<br>
div id="page"<br>
div class="logo"/div<br>
ul id="navigation"<br>
li a href=""Item 1 /a /li<br>
li a href=""Item 2 /a /li<br>
li a href="" Item 3 /a /li<br>
li a href="" Item 4 /a /li<br>
li a href=""Item 5 /a /li<br>
/ul<br>
/div<br>
Thus the use of Emmet is to create a large block of code with a single keystroke.<br>

# 02. Difference between a Library and Framework

<ol>
<li>Frameworks and libraries are both code written by someone else that helps you perform some common tasks in a less verbose way.</li>
<li>A framework inverts the control of the program. It tells the developer what they need. A library doesn’t. The programmer calls the library where and when they need it.</li>
<li>The degree of freedom a library or framework gives the developer will dictate how “opinionated” it is.</li>
</ol>

# 03. What is CDN? Why do we use it?

A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading Internet content, including HTML pages, JavaScript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.<br>

1. Improving website load times <br>
2. Reducing bandwidth costs
3. Increasing content availability and redundancy
4. Improving website security

# 04. Why is React known as React?

React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It was developed by Facebook, and the name “React” was chosen because it is meant to help developers build user interfaces that are fast and responsive, or “reactive.” The library was designed to “react” to changes in data. <br>#reusable #adapative-to-changes <br>

# 05. What is crossorigin in script tag?

The crossorigin attribute sets the mode of the request to an HTTP CORS Request.<br>

Web pages often make requests to load resources on other servers. Here is where CORS comes in.<br>

A cross-origin request is a request for a resource (e.g. style sheets, iframes, images, fonts, or scripts) from another domain.<br>
This enables a better error handling experience in React 16 and later.<br>
CORS is used to manage cross-origin requests.<br>

# 06. What is diference between React and ReactDOM?
The reason React and ReactDOM were split into two libraries was due to the arrival of React Native. React contains functionality utilised in web and mobile apps. ReactDOM functionality is utilised only in web apps. <br>

# 07. What is difference between react.development.js and react.production.js files via CDN?
react.development.js - More developer friendly, readable, will take more size.<br>
react.production.js - Minified code that is not developer friendly as it focused on decreasing in file size, code efficiency.<br>
The production version will be optimized in a few ways--smaller file size by minimizing variable names and removing white space, etc--whereas the development version will remain readable, might include source maps, etc., making it better for debugging and development usage. Functionally they're the same. <br>

