# 2. Igniting our app: What have we learnt?

Creating our own react-app without actually using react-app.<br>

### Key Points:

Bundlers: A bundler is a tool that puts together all your JavaScript code and its dependencies and throws a new JavaScript output file with everything merged, ready for the web, commonly known as the bundle file.<br>
Optimize the performance of our app to load it faster.<br>
There are different bundlers for this task:
a. Vite
b. Parcel
c. Web Packs (used by create-react-app along with @Babel)

#### We'll be creating our own react-app by making use of Parcel(Bundler) package downloaded from the npm.

#### Functions of Parcel:

1. HMR: HOT MODULE REPLACEMENT (Similar Functionality of the Live Server)
2. File Watcher Algorithm - C++ (Tracks changes in the files)
3. Bundling (making it into a bundle kinda thing)
4. Minify (Reduces the long variable names)
5. Cleaning our Code (Clears the console log statements and such)
6. Dev & Production Build
7. Super Fast Build
8. Image Optimization (Such that the images load faster)
9. Caching while Development (Makes it faster)
10. Compression
11. Older versions of Browsers
12. Supports to build apps on https
13. Port Number is generated uniquely
14. Consistent Hashing Algorithm
15. Zero Config Bundler

# 01. What is npm?

npm is the package manager for Node.js. It was created in 2009 as an open source project to help JavaScript developers easily share packaged modules of code.<br>

The npm Registry is a public collection of packages of open-source code for Node.js, front-end web apps, mobile apps, robots, routers, and countless other needs of the JavaScript community.<br>

npm is the command line client that allows developers to install and publish those packages.<br>

# 02. What is Parcel/WebPack? Why do we need it?

Parcel and WebPack are two different bundlers with each having their own functionality.<br>
A bundler is a tool that puts together all your JavaScript code and its dependencies and throws a new JavaScript output file with everything merged, ready for the web, commonly known as the bundle file.<br>
We need a bundler to optimize the performance of our web app that means the time taken for loading and stuff. If it is a small web application it is not an issue with loading but as we dive deep. We feel problematic with the time for loading.<br>
/dist will be the folder created after the bundle process and will contain all the bundled files.<br>

# 03. What is `.parcel-cache`?

The .cache folder (or .parcel-cache in parcel v2) stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode. I think committing it to git would be a bad idea - it would add a large number of (unnecessary) changes to your commit history, and it could easily get out-of-sync with the code that generated it.

# 04. What is `npx` ?

`NPX`: The npx stands for Node Package Execute and it comes with the npm, when you installed npm above 5.2.0 version then automatically npx will installed. It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that you want from the npm registry without even installing that package. The npx is useful during a single time use package.

# 05. What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?

Both dependencies and devDependencies objects are present in the package.json file of our web application.<br>
`dependencies:` These contain the list of packages that are needed by your project whose absence will have an effect on the functionality of your web app. All the other packages that a specific dependency depends on are all installed on our machine.<br>
`devDependencies:` A library that is required only in our development phase is in the
devDependencies.<br>

# 06. What is Tree Shaking?

Tree shaking is a term used as a means to eliminate code that isn't in use, or dead-code, as we call it. Bundlers often perform Tree Shaking to eliminate the dead code thereby satisfying the objective of them i.e. Optimization of the Web App. Using this process a bundler considers only the ones that have an impact on our app.

# 07. What is Hot Module Replacement?

Now whenever we make any kind of change to our app.js file and save it, react will compile it and the changed content will be shown on the web. It will refresh the page every time we save it, though it recommended to make use of the HOT Module Replacement, which allows us to reload our application in the browser without refreshing the page. It improves the experience as a developer.

# 08. List down your favourite 5 superpowers of Parcel and describe any 3 of them in your own words

1. HMR: HOT MODULE REPLACEMENT (Similar Functionality of the Live Server)
2. File Watcher Algorithm - C++ (Tracks changes in the files)
3. Bundling (making it into a bundle kinda thing)
4. Minify (Reduces the long variable names)
5. Cleaning our Code (Clears the console log statements and such)

# 09. What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?

Git can specify which files or parts of your project should be ignored by Git using a .gitignore file. Git will not track files and folders specified in .gitignore. However, the .gitignore file itself IS tracked by Git.
<br>
Here is a general list which should be included in .gitignore:<br>

1. Dependencies: such as the node_modules folder. This folder contains dependencies for your project that can be safely ignored and should not be stored in your repository.
2. Caches: such as the .cache folder. Cache folders are used for caching to speed up builds and dev environments. These are generated programmatically.
3. Builds: such as a dist or build folder. These files are generated at runtime, just like .cache folders. They contain production-ready assets that do not belong in version control.
4. Logs: such as the npm-debug.log file. Logs are generated programmatically to help with debugging. These files can be regenerated on demand and they can be safely ignored.
5. Credentials: such as .env files. These can include things like API keys or secrets containing sensitive information.

# 10. What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`?

`package.lock.json` is created for locking the dependency with the installed version. It will install the exact latest version of that package in your application and save it in `package.json`. Let’s say if the current version of the package is 1.3.2 then it will save the version with (^) sign. Here carot(^) means, it will support any higher version with major version 1 for eg. 1.2.2.

Without `package.lock.json`, there might be some differences in installed versions in different environments. To overcome this problem, `package.lock.json` is created to have the same results in every environment. It should be in source control with the package.json file because if any other user will clone the project and install dependencies then it will install the exact same dependencies as in `package.lock.json` to avoid differences.

# 11. Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?

Because of the following reasons:

1. Dependency Consistency
2. Collaboration
3. Security
4. Version Conflicts
5. Unintended Changes
6. Npm Commands

# 12. What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

`node_modules`: Node Modules act as a database for all the packages of our projects. The transitive dependencies are also stored in the node modules. <br>
Node modules are very large and it is not a good idea to push them on to git. All the packages that are necessary for our project can be installed once from the `package.json` file using the command `npm i`. So it is not a better idea to push those onto github.

# 13. What is the `dist` folder?

/`dist` will be the folder created after the bundle process and will contain all the bundled files.

# 14. What is `browserlists`?

browserlists contains the list of browsers that are supported.
