# 03. Laying the Foundation (What have we learnt?)

- JSX
- React.createElement vs JSX
- Benefits of JSX
- Behind the Scenes of JSX
- Babel & parcel role in JSX
- Components
  - Functional Components
    -Composing Components

# 01. What is JSX?

JSX is a syntax extension for JavaScript that lets you write HTML-like markup inside a JavaScript file.<br>
It is similar to writing the HTML elements(not exactly HTML elements) in a JavaScript file without createElement.<br>
Broswer does not understand JSX and a transpiler/compiler is required to convert this to browser understandable js code. Eg: Babel <br>

#### JSX => createElement => Object => HTML(DOM)

# 02. Superpowers of JsX

#### Readability and Easy way of understanding

JSX helps us in keeping our code simpler and elegant when writing large pieces of code.<br>
According to the React docs, most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code.<br>
`JSX as variables` : markup (html-like) syntax can be set in a variable. This creates a react element (object). <br>

`Javascript expressions in JSX` : JSX supports all js expressions by wrapping them in {}<br>

`Attributes in JSX`: We can pass all the html attributes inside jsx tag (attributes must be CamelCased). Even, custom attributes can be created, but it must not use CamelCase.<br>

`Props in JSX`: The values of each attribute can be passed as properties (props) to a react element. This is my favourite superpower of jsx, since it can handle dynamic data to create react elements.<br>

# 03. Role of type attribute in script tag? What options can I use there?

This attribute indicates the type of script represented. The value of this attribute will be one of the following: <br>

### Attribute is not set (default), an empty string, or a JavaScript MIME type (like "text/javascript etc")

    - Indicates that the script is a "classic script", containing JavaScript code.

### importmap

    - indicates that the body of the element contains an import map. The import map is a JSON object that developers can use to control how the browser resolves module specifiers when importing JavaScript modules.

### module

    - This value causes the code to be treated as a JavaScript module.

# 04. `{TitleComponent}` vs `{<TitleComponent />}` vs `{<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>}` in JSX

`{TitleComponent}` - This value in jsx is considered as jsx expression or variable.
`{<TitleComponent />}` - This value in jsx is meant for rendering a component (i.e) function that return jsx. This is self closing tag.
`{<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>}` - This is same as `{<TitleComponent />}` if there are no child inside TitleComponent. If there are children, then those values come between `{<TitleComponent> </TitleComponent>}`.
