# Talk is Cheap, show me the code

## 01. Is JSX mandatory for React?

JSX is not mandatory for using React. It's just syntactic sugar for the React.createElement(component, props, ...children) function.<br>JSX makes your code cleaner and eliminates the complexity of using React.createElement(). Instead of writing React.createElement('div'), you can simply write <div>. This difference becomes even more significant when creating larger, more complex elements.

## 02. Is ES6 mandatory for React?

ES6 is the standardization of javascript for making code more readable and more accessible.

If we don’t use ES6 in react, there is an alternative to perform. We use create-react-class instead of ES6. We cannot use the functionalities newly introduced in ES6.

## 03. {TitleComponent} vs {<TitleComponent/>} vs {<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>} in JSX

`{TitleComponent}` - This value in jsx is considered as jsx expression or variable.
`{<TitleComponent />}` - This value in jsx is meant for rendering a component (i.e) function that return jsx. This is self closing tag.
`{<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>}` - This is same as `{<TitleComponent />}` if there are no child inside TitleComponent. If there are children, then those values come between `{<TitleComponent> </TitleComponent>}`.

## 04. How can I write comments in JSX?

`{ /* You can add your comments here */ }`

## 05. What is <React.Fragment></React.Fragment> and <></> ?

Both `<React.Fragment></React.Fragment>` and `<></>` are same. The JSX components should return JSX elements belonging to a single parent which can be achieved by adding an extra div element. But we render the Component to a div itself, this creates an extra div which is of no use. So, they came up with this concept which groups all the elements together and makes them have single parent.

## 06. What is Virtual DOM?

Virtual DOM is the copy of representation of DOM. Whenever new elements are added to the DOM styles need to be re-rendered and it takes time to re-render the page on the screen. New elements are added to the new copy of Virtual DOM and the old one is compared to the new one and by making use of `diffing algoithm`, it updates the DOM accordingly.

## 07. What is Reconciliation in React?

`The Process of making changes to the DOM of the web application by making use of Virtual DOM and diffing algorithm is Reconciliation.`

## 08. What is React Fiber?

React Fiber is a concept of ReactJS that is used to render a system faster, smoother and smarter. The Fiber reconciler, which became the default reconciler for React 16 and above, is a complete rewrite of React’s reconciliation algorithm to solve some long-standing issues in React. Because Fiber is asynchronous, React can:
<br>

<ul>
<li>Pause, resume, and restart rendering work on components as new updates come in</li>
<li>Reuse previously completed work and even abort it if not needed</li>
<li>Split work into chunks and prioritize tasks based on importance</li>
</ul>

## 09. Why we need keys in React? When do we need keys in React?

Suppose there are two list items in an unordered list as shown below:<br>

```
<ul>
   <li>Drone1</li>
   <li>Drone2</li>
</ul>
```

Changed to <br>

```
<ul>
   <li>Drone1</li>`<br>
   <li>Drone2</li>`<br>
   <li>Drone3</li>`<br>
</ul>
```

From the concept of Virtual DOM, it creates a new copy of virtual DOM and then sees where the changes are made. As there is no specific difference between the list items, browser is in ambiguous state and will completely render all the elements again. So, they have come up with the concept of key which diffferentiates the elements.

## 10. Can we use index as keys in React?

Yes, we can use the index as keys, but it is not considered as a good practice to use them because if the order of items may change. This can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with component state. Keys are taken from each object which is being rendered. There might be a possibility that if we modify the incoming data react may render them in unusual order.

## 11. What is props in React? Ways to

props stands for properties. Props are arguments passed into React components. props are used in React to pass data from one component to another (from a parent component to a child component(s)). They are useful when you want the flow of data in your app to be dynamic.

### Ex:

```
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <Tool name="Chetan Nada" tool="Figma"/> // name and tool are props
    </div>
  )
}
```

## 12. What is a Config Driven UI ?

Config-driven UI is a technique that allows you to create user interfaces based on a configuration file, such as JSON, or a TypeScript file that defines the layout and content of the UI components. This can be useful for creating dynamic and customizable UIs without hard coding them.
<br>
For example, let's say you want to create a dashboard that shows different types of data visualizations and summaries. Instead of writing GSX code for each component and arranging them in a fixed layout, you can use a JSON file that specifies the type, size, position, and data source for each component. And then you can create a custom component that reads that JSON file and renders the UI accordingly. So this way you can easily change the UI by modifying the JSON file without even touching the other code. You can also reuse the same component from different pages and all for different scenarios by providing different JSON files.
