# Data is the new Oil

# What is prop drilling?

Prop drilling occurs when a parent component passes data down to its children and then those children pass the same data down to their own children. This process can continue indefinitely. At the end, it's a long chain of component dependencies that can be difficult to manage and maintain.

#### Problems with Prop Drilling:

1. Code Duplication
2. Increased Cognitive Load
3. Decreased Maintainability

#### Remedies:

1. useContext()
2. Redux Library

# What is lifting the state up?

There should be a single “source of truth” for any data that changes in a React application. Usually, the state is first added to the component that needs it for rendering. Then, if other components also need it, you can lift it up to their closest common ancestor. Instead of trying to sync the state between different components, you should rely on the top-down data flow.

# What is Context Provider and Context Consumer?

```
<MyContext.Provider value={/* some value */}>
```

Every Context object comes with a Provider React component that allows consuming components to subscribe to context changes.

The Provider component accepts a value prop to be passed to consuming components that are descendants of this Provider. One Provider can be connected to many consumers. Providers can be nested to override values deeper within the tree.

All consumers that are descendants of a Provider will re-render whenever the Provider’s value prop changes. The propagation from Provider to its descendant consumers (including .contextType and useContext) is not subject to the shouldComponentUpdate method, so the consumer is updated even when an ancestor component skips an update.

<hr>
<hr>
Context Consumer

```
<MyContext.Consumer>
  {value => /* render something based on the context value */}
</MyContext.Consumer>
```

A React component that subscribes to context changes. Using this component lets you subscribe to a context within a function component.

Requires a function as a child. The function receives the current context value and returns a React node. The value argument passed to the function will be equal to the value prop of the closest Provider for this context above in the tree. If there is no Provider for this context above, the value argument will be equal to the defaultValue that was passed to createContext().
